Okay.
So let's finally address the S lynch violations that have been within the action button component since
we declared this perhaps key on our view configuration object.
We have this array here where we declare the props that action button expects to receive.
In this case, it's going to be text and type.
And if I hover my mouse over either of these strings, we'll see.
This s lint description.
Prop text should define at least its type.
That's not the best description.
But if you go and click into the link, you'll see a more detailed rundown.
Basically, what s lint is telling us is that there's a better way that we can declare our props.
So if you think about it, all that we're telling viewers right now is that we're going to receive two
props, text and type, but we can be a lot more explicit in telling view what to expect.
For example, we can tell view the data type of these props, right?
What what are they going to be?
Are they going to be a string or a number or a boolean?
We haven't told that to view yet.
We just told them the prop names.
Similarly, we can tell view whether a prop is required or optional.
In other words, whether the parent component needs to give a value for that prop or whether it's arbitrary
and not needed.
Right.
If it's something that the component doesn't need to work but can benefit from, we can make it optional.
And finally, we can also configure additional details like a fallback value for a prop.
So if a parent component does not provide a prop value, we can provide a default to fall back to or
to rely on in the case.
The the parent component does not give us the value.
So there is a syntax that we can use here instead of an array that is going to allow us to set up all
of that additional configuration for props, which is of course going to be better for view because
it has more information to work with and it can alert you of certain violations in your app.
For example, it can tell you, hey, this prop is a string, but you're giving me a number.
That's a problem, right?
Or alternatively, it can say this prop is required, but you're not giving me a value from the parent,
right?
So the more validation that we can give you to double check, the better.
And this is kind of the simplest way, but there's a better way that we can do it.
So instead of an array here, we're instead going to declare an object.
So I'm going to have placed this object here, provide my comma here, and break it up.
The way this object works is that our properties or our keys are going to be our props, right?
So my first prop that I want to target is text, right?
So text is going to be my first prop and the value for each prop is going to be its own object.
So here I'm going to add another nested object.
And you can think of this as the configuration object or the validation object for the text prop and
only the text prop.
Later on, what we're going to do is add a similar configuration object for our type prop.
So let me go ahead and write that out.
Right now, we're going to have type with its own object.
So each prop is going to have its own nested object right here.
So let's start with text.
So the properties that we write inside this nested object are not up to us.
They are they have to be written exactly as Vue expects them.
So that view knows what we're working with.
So the first property here that we can use is type.
This is going to be a little bit confusing, I understand, because this property is called type, which
is coincidentally the same name as our type prop.
Don't get confused by the two.
This is view's type.
And of course what this specifies is the type of the prop.
So our text prop is going to be a string so we can write here with the capital string.
And the reason this works is because this is actually referencing JavaScript internal string object,
its own implementation.
So we can simply write the word string, no quotes.
This is a reference to a core object in JavaScript.
All right.
So that's declaring the type of the text prop.
In fact, we can copy this code right here to type as well, because the type of type is going to be
string.
All right.
And just to clarify, when I when I'm talking about oops, when I'm talking about this type right here,
I'm talking about this prop, which is coincidentally called type.
And when I'm referencing this type right here, I'm talking about the JavaScript type of that prop.
All right.
So type is an example of one thing we can put in here.
Another thing that we can put in here is a property called Required.
And just like the name suggests, that tells you whether that property is required from the parent component.
So for example, I can put true here.
And that means that whenever a parent component renders action button anywhere in the app, the parent
component must give a text prop.
And if it doesn't do that, then Vue is going to output a warning in our chrome console.
So for our text prop, we need that.
It kind of makes sense to need that because we want some kind of text to display within our button.
So let's make that required in comparison.
Let's make our type for sorry.
Let's make our type prop not required.
So we're going to write the required property here and set it to false.
So our type prop is not required.
So what can we do if we make the type property not required and the user does not provide a value for
it?
How do we know which yes.
Class to apply?
Well, if I hover my mouse over here, we're going to see prop type requires default value to be set.
So this is another example of Eastland helping us.
It's saying if this is not required, can you give me a fallback value?
Can you give me a default value to use just in case the parent component doesn't give me a type prop?
So the way that we can specify a default value is by using the keyword default right here, the default
property.
And of course, this is going to be whatever you want the value of the type prop to be.
In the case that the parent does not give it.
So for example, here I can set a string of primary.
So just you explain how this is going to work.
If the parent component gives me a type prop.
We're going to use its regular value.
Whatever value the parent gives me, I'm going to use.
But given that the prop is not required, if the parent component does not give me a type prop, then
you will say, okay, I'm going to fall back to the default.
I'm going to substitute what you told me to use in the case that I don't have a type prop.
I'm going to use this primary string right here.
So if I go back to my browser.
Everything is going to work as expected.
And if I refresh the page, we're going to see right here.
Now we are actually literally feeding in the type of primary, so we're getting our primary button.
But now, technically speaking, we actually do not need to provide a type right here in our main NAV
component.
It doesn't necessarily hurt because we're being explicit.
But just to show you, if we get rid of this line right here, we are not passing in a type to action
one.
But that's not a problem because action but knows to use the primary style by default.
However, we do need to provide a text prop at all times.
So we are going to still keep this right here.
So if I go back to my browser, let me refresh just for safety's sake and I go to my view devtools.
You can see that the type is set to primary, even though we took that prop away from the main nav component.
And that's because view is going to fall back to that default value that we assign.
And if I go to my console, we should see no errors right here.
Let me try to trigger an error right here by removing our text prop as well.
So I'm going to remove it temporarily and go back to my browser.
And now you're going to see this view warning pop up missing required prop text.
And it's going to tell you that action button that's being rendered within the main nav component,
within the app component.
So these are the helpful warnings that this is going to give you that we enabled using that more complex
prop configuration and validation in the action.
One component view is going to tell us which props were missing.
It's also going to warn us if we're using the wrong data, types of text somehow ends up being something
different.
Let me try that just to show you again.
I'm going to bring it back.
So I'm going to bring back the texting, but I'm going to use my V bind syntax and I'm going to give
it a value like false.
You do not have to follow along.
This is just for example, if I go back here.
And I refresh here we're going to see now invalid prop type check failed.
You told me to expect a string, but given that we use the V binds index, we're now getting a boolean
with the value false.
So that's another helpful check.
The view is going to tell us we're giving the wrong data type for a prop and that's something that can
actually happen, especially when data is flowing down, props down a very long chain, like from parent
to child and from child to grandchild.
Or if you're getting these values from something like an API, so they're arriving dynamically in the
app and then cascading down a component tree.
It's possible to have that mismatch.
Maybe your server will return a boolean, while a component may expect a string.
These checks are really helpful and they would not be possible without this validation that we added
in this lesson.
So with that said, let me return back to my normal functioning state of having a text prop set to a
string.
We're going to leave out the type for now, and that is all there is to cover in this lesson.